day_1/day1-exercises.md, before:

### On a website, what is the purpose of HTML code?
* HTML code gives a website structure. It allows the browser to know how to arrange, and navigate, the information contained within each unique website.
### What is the difference between an element and a tag?
  * Elements contain opening and closing tags. Elements dictate the action/format while tags mark the location/information that expresses that action/format.
### Why do we use attributes in HTML elements?
  * Same reason we used adjectives/adverbs in everyday language; to add information/detail to an otherwise simple sentence.
### Describe the purpose of the head, title, and body HTML elements?
  * Head and Title could easily be confused as the "<head>" element usually houses the "<title>" element. The former may contain information about the page besides just the title, but it will not show in the main browser window. The title element contains the words that make up the title of the page, usually displayed at the top of the browser, above the HTML bar, or as the title of a browser Tab. The body element will contain most of the information as it denotes the main browser window.
### In your browser (Chrome), how do you view the source of a website?
  * On the Menu bar: view > developer > view source. There is a shortcut available: option + command + U
### List five different HTML elements and what they are used for.
  1. '<h1></h1>' The first of six possible heading levels. This would be the main heading.
  2. '<b></b>' Codes for bold text
  3. '<i></i>' italic text
  4. '<br />' introduces a line break without forming a new paragraph, in poems for example.
  5. '<cite></cite>' It helps the bowser/search engines recognize where a reference to a book, film, research paper is made
  vs. simple italics it would just be random collection of words.  
### What are empty elements?
  * Elements that do not contain any words between opening and closing tabs, hence usually written as a single element with a space and forward slash as the <br /> "line break" element example above.
### What is semantic markup?
  * Hinted upon in example five above, elements used for semantic markup are less to change the appearance of a website and more to provide the browser extra information. Especially useful to optimize your website for search engines and screen readers.
### What are three new semantic elements introduced in HTML 5?
  1. <article> </article> determines what sections of the web page could stand alone, as a whole article, blog post, or comment.
  2. <nav></nav> contains the major navigational blocks of a website: Home, About Us, Contact Us, etc....
  3. <aside></aside> within <article></article> it helps contain information that is not critical to the article but helpful, as in a glossary. When it is outside the article element, it acts as a container for content that is related to the entire page as in a box of links or updating feeds (stocks, tweets....).



  Code Pen link:
  <p class="codepen" data-height="265" data-theme-id="default" data-default-tab="html,result" data-user="emontealvo" data-slug-hash="zYxggQd" style="height: 265px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;" data-pen-title="Why Learn Web Development">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/emontealvo/pen/zYxggQd">
  Why Learn Web Development</a> by Edwin Montealvo (<a href="https://codepen.io/emontealvo">@emontealvo</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://static.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

Commit message:

Fix inline code block format

day_1/day1-exercises.md, after:

###  1. On a website, what is the purpose of HTML code?
* HTML code gives a website structure. It allows the browser to know how to arrange, and navigate, the information contained within each unique website.
### 2. What is the difference between an element and a tag?
  * Elements contain opening and closing tags. Elements dictate the action/format while tags mark the location/information that expresses that action/format.
### 3. Why do we use attributes in HTML elements?
  * Same reason we used adjectives/adverbs in everyday language; to add information/detail to an otherwise simple sentence.
### 4. Describe the purpose of the head, title, and body HTML elements?
  * Head and Title could easily be confused as the "<head>" element usually houses the "<title>" element. The former may contain information about the page besides just the title, but it will not show in the main browser window. The title element contains the words that make up the title of the page, usually displayed at the top of the browser, above the HTML bar, or as the title of a browser Tab. The body element will contain most of the information as it denotes the main browser window.
### 5. In your browser (Chrome), how do you view the source of a website?
  * On the Menu bar: view > developer > view source. There is a shortcut available: option + command + U
### 6. List five different HTML elements and what they are used for.
  1. `<h1></h1>` The first of six possible heading levels. This would be the main heading.
  2. `<b></b>` Makes content between tags display as bold text.
  3. `<i></i>` Makes content between tags display as italic text.
  4. `<br />` introduces a line break without forming a new paragraph, in poems for example.
  5. `<cite></cite>` It helps the bowser/search engines recognize where a reference to a book, film, research paper is made
  vs. simple italics, where it would just be a random collection of words.  
### What are empty elements?
  * Elements that do not contain any words between opening and closing tabs, hence usually written as a single element with a space and forward slash as the <br /> "line break" element example above. The empty element <link /> allows for stylesheets to be paired with HTML files. Images are also inserted using an empty elements. Empty elements can behave as inline or block elements depending on how and where they are used.

### What is semantic markup?
  * Hinted upon in example five above, elements used for semantic markup are less to change the appearance of a website and more to provide the browser extra information. It allows meaningful information to stand out from the rest of the page. Semantic markup is particularly useful when optimize your website for search engines and/or screen readers. Increased accessibility lead to increased traffic, which is generally good.
    
### What are three new semantic elements introduced in HTML 5?
  1. <article> </article> determines what sections of the web page could stand alone, as a whole article, blog post, or comment.
  2. <nav></nav> contains the major navigational blocks of a website: Home, About Us, Contact Us, etc....
  3. <aside></aside> within <article></article> it helps contain information that is not critical to the article but helpful, as in a glossary. When it is outside the article element, it acts as a container for content that is related to the entire page as in a box of links or updating feeds (stocks, tweets....).



  Code Pen link:
  <p class="codepen" data-height="265" data-theme-id="default" data-default-tab="html,result" data-user="emontealvo" data-slug-hash="zYxggQd" style="height: 265px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;" data-pen-title="Why Learn Web Development">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/emontealvo/pen/zYxggQd">
  Why Learn Web Development</a> by Edwin Montealvo (<a href="https://codepen.io/emontealvo">@emontealvo</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://static.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>
