### Day 1 exercises—

1. HTML is used to explain the layout of the webpage. It shows you what different elements are being used.
2. The tag is the way you notate what kind of an element is being made, and the element is the entire string or data type that is being put into the webpage.
3. Attributes are used to give you an additional layer of information about what is being used in the element.
4. Head- The first layer that outlines what the entire webpage is about. Title- Is the second layer that describes the contents of the elements either at the very top of the browser window or on the tab of the webpage. Body- Is the element that contains all of the contents that make up the webpage.
5. For me in Chrome, all I have to do is right click and then click on ‘View page source’ or use the Ctrl + U shortcut.
6. <h1></h1> is a heading elements, and it identifies that a heading is being created. There are 6 different levels of headings that all have different sizes. <p></p> is a paragraph element, and it shows that a paragraph is being used, and will also add space between separate paragraph sections. <b></b> is a bold element, and it will cause words between the tags to appear in bold lettering. <i></i> is an italic element that causes words between the tags to appear in italic lettering. <sup></sup> is a superscript element that causes words between the tags to be typed in superscript, like suffixes of dates or mathematical concepts.
7.   Empty elements are very different because they usually only have 1 tag. Due to that fact, there is typically no words between the tags, yet the element has a preset style that it will add onto the webpage.
8. A semantic markup is an alternate way of defining an element, and it already has a preset style it will set the font and appearance of the wording to. Instead of trying to set multiple element styles, some semantic markups are preset to style words in multiple ways at once, changing the color, boldness, italics, or even underlining.
9. There is a new aside element, which creates a more vertically stacker text box off to the side of your body work. There is a footer element, which creates text at the very bottom of your webpage. There is also a nav element which creates almost like a menu bar at the top of your webpage that is used for easy navigation.
