On a website, what is the purpose of HTML code? #1ANSWER:Specifically the purpose of HTML code is to create the structure of the pages, it structures the layout of what one wants to say on a website, noting the start of a page and the closing of a page, body, head, title, etc. through tags. HTML pages are text documents, so if you want anything written into the main browser window, the title bar, pages, you must understand that that is the purpose of HTML code.
What is the difference between an element and a tag? #2ANSWER: Usually tags come in pairs with an opening tag and a closing tag and content between the two. This gives information to the coder, (for example <p>This is the tag for a paragraph.</p>). Tag and element are often used interchangeably but a complete tag, (pair) or an unpaired tag are considered the element or empty element.
Why do we use attributes in HTML elements? #3ANSWER: Because they can provide us with more information about the content within and between tags.
Describe the purpose of the head, title, and body HTML elements. #4ANSWER: Within the head element, sits the title element, giving text to the title bar in order to see what you are working on. The body element is the content which sits inside the main browser window.
In your browser (Chrome), how do you view the source of a website? #5ANSWER: In Chrome, you click on the view tab which opens up and you scroll down to the developer tab which opens up into another list and you click on 'View Source'.
List five different HTML elements and what they are used for. For example, <p></p> is a paragraph element, and it is used to represent a paragraph of text. #6ANSWER: <html></html> is an html element and means anything in between this opening and closing html tags is HTML code. <h1></h1> main heading, any words in between these is the main heading. <h2></h2> words in between are a sub heading. <b></b> any words or characters in between these tags is printed in bold. <i></i> any words/characters between these tags will be written in italic.  
What are empty elements? #7ANSWER: An element with only one tag, for example <hr /> or <br /> representing a horizontal line/rule between paragraphs or sentences or the other example is a line break in the page which can be between paragraphs or between words/characters.
What is semantic markup? #8ANSWER: These are also text elements but are not used to change the way ones text looks but is used for greater clarity and accuracy in describing content within ones web pages.
What are three new semantic elements introduced in HTML 5? Use page 431 in the book to find more about these new elements.#9ANSWER: <aside>  <article> <header>  These layouts help one divide up parts of the page and act more independently than traditional HTML layouts, and indicate the kind of content you will find in them. For example the <article> element acts as a container for any section of the page that could stand alone.
CodePen Assignment: PEN:WHAT DRIVES YOU? LINK:https://codepen.io/stephlsohns/pen/YzzYZBP
