day_1/questions.md, before:

## Day 1 Questions

1. How would you log the string `"Hello World!"` to the console?
```console.log("Hello World!");```

1. What is the character you would use to indicate comments in a JavaScript file?
```//You should use a double forward slash to indicate a comment```

1. Explain the difference between an integer and a floating-point number?
    An integer is any whole number that does not contain a decimal, where as a floating-point number is a number that uses a decimal point

1. In the space below, create a variable `animal` that holds the string `"zebra"`.
```var animal = 'zebra';```

1. How would you log the string `"zebra"` using the variable that you created above?
```console.log(animal);```

1. What is concatenation? Use concatenation to log a sentence to the console using the variable `animal`.
    Concatenation is adding a variable to a piece of code, where the end result will use the variable's value to create a response. It can be used to insert a variable's value into a sentence.
```console.log("I've never met a " + animal + " that I didn't like!")```

Commit message:

Add multiple lines to Questions markdown

day_1/questions.md, after:

## Day 1 Questions

1. How would you log the string `"Hello World!"` to the console?
```console.log("Hello World!");```

1. What is the character you would use to indicate comments in a JavaScript file?
```//You should use a double forward slash to indicate a comment```
```
    /* 
    You could
    use a forward slash
    followed by an asterisk
    to omit multiple lines
    of code without deleting.
    This can also be used for longer comments.
    /*
```

1. Explain the difference between an integer and a floating-point number?
    An integer is any whole number that does not contain a decimal, where as a floating-point number is a number that uses a decimal point

1. In the space below, create a variable `animal` that holds the string `"zebra"`.
```var animal = 'zebra';```

1. How would you log the string `"zebra"` using the variable that you created above?
```console.log(animal);```

1. What is concatenation? Use concatenation to log a sentence to the console using the variable `animal`.
    Concatenation is adding a variable to a piece of code, where the end result will use the variable's value to create a response. It can be used to insert a variable's value into a sentence.
```console.log("I've never met a " + animal + " that I didn't like!")```
