day_1/README.md, before:

# Day 1: HTML and CSS


#### Start a Gist to Track Your Technical Module 0 Capstone Progress
    A gist is basically a file where you can add text, and the gist file is tied to your GitHub account. Here is some documentation about [how to create a gist](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-gists/).

    Sign in to GitHub. From your GitHub account, create a public gist with the filename that includes "mod-0-capstone" and your name. Something like: `JimSmith-mod-0-capstone.md`

    The `.md` file extension for your gist refers to markdown formatting. Markdown is a simple markup language to help format your text. For example, you can add a heading in markdown using the hash: `# This is my main title`. [This article](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet) shows everything you need for basic markdown formatting.

    You should put all of the answers to questions asked in the mod 0 capstone in this new gist. Every time you work on more of the mod 0 capstone, track your progress by adding to this gist.

*   #### Create a [CodePen](https://codepen.io) Account

    CodePen is a website where you can quickly create small projects using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. It is lightweight, and you can see the output of your code right away!

    In order to save your CodePen projects, you need to have an account. It's free - you just have to sign up!

*   #### Read Chapters 1 and 2 on Structure and Text from [HTML and CSS: Design and Build Websites](http://www.amazon.com/HTML-CSS-Design-Build-Websites/dp/1118008189/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1459879147&sr=8-3&keywords=duckett)

    Open the mod 0 capstone gist you created earlier, and answer these questions about the reading in your gist:

    1.  On a website, what is the purpose of HTML code?
    2.  What is the difference between an element and a tag?
    3.  Why do we use attributes in HTML elements?
    4.  Describe the purpose of the head, title, and body HTML elements.
    5.  In your browser (Chrome), how do you view the source of a website?
    6.  List five different HTML elements and what they are used for. For example, `<p></p>` is a paragraph element, and it is used to represent a paragraph of text.
    7.  What are empty elements?
    8.  What is semantic markup?
    9.  What are three new semantic elements introduced in HTML 5? Use page 431 in the book to find more about these new elements.

    Go to [CodePen](https://codepen.io). Create a new "pen", and start to write some HTML code in CodePen using what you read from the Structure and Text chapters. The HTML should include:

    *   The basic HTML structure (body, title, head, etc.).
    *   At least two levels of headings.
    *   Multiple paragraphs.
    *   The paragraph text should be about what drives you to learn about web development.

    When you are done, save the "pen", and paste the link into your mod 0 capstone gist. You're doing it! You're starting the beginning of your web development career.

    Some resources about using CodePen:

    *   [Here is a video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T_k03JH3b24) about the basics of CodePen and how to use it.
    *   Step through [this interactive walkthrough](https://codepen.io/pen/tour/welcome/start) to familiarize yourself with using CodePen.
    *   If you're stuck on what a basic HTML structure looks like, use page 58 in [HTML and CSS: Design and Build Websites](http://www.amazon.com/HTML-CSS-Design-Build-Websites/dp/1118008189/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1459879147&sr=8-3&keywords=duckett) to help get you started.

Commit message:

Update day 1 with new non-gist instructions

day_1/README.md, after:

# Day 1: HTML and CSS

## Open your local copy of frontend_module_0_capstone in Atom

1. Using your terminal, open the local copy of this repo. To do this, enter these commands into your terminal:

```
cd ~
ls
cd turing
ls
cd 1module
ls
cd frontend_module_0_capstone
ls
cd day_1
ls
atom .
```

This will open the day_1 directory in Atom. You should be able to see the directory and its contents in the file explorer on the left side of your Atom window.

#### Add a file to track your day one progress

In the day_1 directory, create another file called `day1-exercises.md`. This is where you'll put your answers to the following questions and a link to the CodePen you create below.

### Create a [CodePen](https://codepen.io) Account

    CodePen is a website where you can quickly create small projects using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. It is lightweight, and you can see the output of your code right away!

    In order to save your CodePen projects, you need to have an account. It's free - you just have to sign up!

### Read Chapters 1 and 2 on Structure and Text from [HTML and CSS: Design and Build Websites](http://www.amazon.com/HTML-CSS-Design-Build-Websites/dp/1118008189/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1459879147&sr=8-3&keywords=duckett)

    Open the `day1-exercises.md` file you created earlier, and answer these questions about the reading in that file:

    1.  On a website, what is the purpose of HTML code?
    2.  What is the difference between an element and a tag?
    3.  Why do we use attributes in HTML elements?
    4.  Describe the purpose of the head, title, and body HTML elements.
    5.  In your browser (Chrome), how do you view the source of a website?
    6.  List five different HTML elements and what they are used for. For example, `<p></p>` is a paragraph element, and it is used to represent a paragraph of text.
    7.  What are empty elements?
    8.  What is semantic markup?
    9.  What are three new semantic elements introduced in HTML 5? Use page 431 in the book to find more about these new elements.

    Go to [CodePen](https://codepen.io). Create a new "pen", and start to write some HTML code in CodePen using what you read from the Structure and Text chapters. The HTML should include:

    *   The basic HTML structure (body, title, head, etc.).
    *   At least two levels of headings.
    *   Multiple paragraphs.
    *   The paragraph text should be about what drives you to learn about web development.

    When you are done, save the "pen", and paste the link into your `day1-exercises.md` file. You're doing it! You're starting the beginning of your web development career.

    Some resources about using CodePen:

    *   [Here is a video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T_k03JH3b24) about the basics of CodePen and how to use it.
    *   Step through [this interactive walkthrough](https://codepen.io/pen/tour/welcome/start) to familiarize yourself with using CodePen.
    *   If you're stuck on what a basic HTML structure looks like, use page 58 in [HTML and CSS: Design and Build Websites](http://www.amazon.com/HTML-CSS-Design-Build-Websites/dp/1118008189/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1459879147&sr=8-3&keywords=duckett) to help get you started.
