section4/reflection.md, before:

## Section 4 Reflection

1. How different did your workflow feel this week, considering we asked you to follow the Pomodoro technique?

1. Regarding the work you did around setting intentions in Step 1 of the Pomodoro technique - how did that go? Were you surprised by anything (did you find yourself way more focused than you realized, more distracted that you thought you'd be, estimating times accurately or totally off, etc)?

1. What is an Object, and how is it different from an Array in Javascript?

1. For each set of data, would an array or object be better to store it? Explain your choice.

  * List of all of the students in class
  * List of states and their capitals
  * List of things to pack for vacation
  * Names of all the Instagram accounts I follow
  * List of student names and their cohort
  * Ingredients and amount of each ingredient to bake a cake
  * All my favorite restaurants

1. In this section, we talked about an `transaction item object`. It has keys that represent different properties an bank transaction would have, and values that store the data. In a banking app, this data would eventually be displayed in the browser for the user. Think of another Object in a web application that you use frequently. What is it? What keys might be on it? What are example values? 

1. What questions do you still have about classes and/or Objects?

Commit message:

Completed all 5 exercises and reflection markdown

section4/reflection.md, after:

## Section 4 Reflection

1. How different did your workflow feel this week, considering we asked you to follow the Pomodoro technique?
> Unfortunately, I did not get to space out my assignments in a way where I could appropriately implement the Pomodoro technique. For the time I did use it, I found myself much more productive and my break rewards were something to look forward to.

1. Regarding the work you did around setting intentions in Step 1 of the Pomodoro technique - how did that go? Were you surprised by anything (did you find yourself way more focused than you realized, more distracted that you thought you'd be, estimating times accurately or totally off, etc)?
> I think I would benefit from setting less broad intentions, but I am still learning how fast it takes me to work on code exercises.

1. What is an Object, and how is it different from an Array in Javascript?
> Stores complex data
> Does not use indexes like an array, instead it uses strings to get the data (key value pairs)

1. For each set of data, would an array or object be better to store it? Explain your choice.

  * List of all of the students in class
  > Array, because it is a simple list

  * List of states and their capitals
  > Object, we are pairing together states with their respective capital

  * List of things to pack for vacation
  > Could go either way, but I'll go with Object because maybe you want to pack your outfits based on the activities you will be doing on your vacation. You are pairing an outfit with an activity therefore it is an object.

  * Names of all the Instagram accounts I follow
  > Array, it is a list of the same data type

  * List of student names and their cohort
  > Object, you are pairing the students with their cohort

  * Ingredients and amount of each ingredient to bake a cake
  > Object, you could be using different data types in your baking ingredients

  * All my favorite restaurants
  > Array, list of restaurant names in string format

1. In this section, we talked about an `transaction item object`. It has keys that represent different properties an bank transaction would have, and values that store the data. In a banking app, this data would eventually be displayed in the browser for the user. Think of another Object in a web application that you use frequently. What is it? What keys might be on it? What are example values?

> Chickfila App, yet again, you have to admit they really have one of the best food apps (and food). The Object would be the menu with the object instances being different mobile orders. Some key and value examples:
`entree: "Chick Fil A Sandwich"`
`drink: "lemonade"`
`dessert: "milkshake"`

1. What questions do you still have about classes and/or Objects?
> In the twitter exercise, I wanted to find a way to make time stamps more dynamic. I found the code I used through a google search, but it became a rather involved code if I was looking for it to be more representative of a 24 hour clock
