UI/UX

1. Psychology: "How much work does the user have to do to get what they want?"
To answer this question, I asked two questions and visited sites I thought would answer them. First, what are the road conditions in Colorado right now? And second, what's the weather in Squamish like right now?
Good: weather.com - The search bar was right where I expected it to be and it was very easy to find Squamish's weather. 3 degrees when I checked, feels like 0, and sunny. My only criticism is that I couldn't tell if it was in F or C, because it could go either way when it's winter and it says "3 degrees."
Bad: codot.gov - I found that if you want to look at road conditions in Colorado, you have to go to a separate page from the landing page (very easy to find, it says "road conditions" on the link) and click on a link (harder to find) that takes you to a *different* site (COtrip.org) that, when I tried to visit it, would not load. (Turns out the site was down. Still not a good user experience, though.)

2. Usability: "Are you being clear and direct, or is this a little too clever?"
To answer this question, I again asked some questions: 1) Does the Denver Public Library have a DVD copy of the movie "Paper Moon"? 2) How much does a Moog One cost?
Good: denverlibrary.org - they do not have a DVD copy of "Paper Moon" (but do have it for streaming on Kanopy). This was easy to find out, since I go to the site fairly often. But even if I didn't, it's clear where their catalog search is and when they don't have something, it simply doesn't show up. I also narrowed down the format to DVD, which is easy and intuitive to do and made the answer very easy to find. Clear and direct.
Bad: moogmusic.com - I did this before starting the assignment, actually, but remembered the weird user experience. On the Moog site, it's easy to see the link that says "synthesizers" and click on it, but the whole site scrolls sideways (I find that disorienting). Finding the price is the same as it is for a lot of stuff like a Moog One - it's not listed on the site and you have to go to retailer sites for it (I don't think that's necessarily *good* UX but it's normal in my experience and I am sure there is a good reason for it). The confusing part for me is that the entire site scrolls sideways. I do remember about a month ago I was looking for something on their site and gave up because the design was too clever for its own good; I was trying to find something out about my theremini's warranty and the dropdown menus and the sideways scrolling were getting in each other's way so I gave up.

3. Design: "Does it communicate the purpose and function without words?"
Good: nytimes.com - this was the first site I thought of for this. They have intentionally designed it to *look* like a broadsheet. The visual language of paper newspapers is used for their homepage, making it immediately clear that this is a newspaper, but digital. Even if it was in a language I did not speak, I would know it is a newspaper.
Bad: tumblr.com - the landing page if you're not logged in and don't know what it is makes no sense. The background is a randomly selected picture someone posted, and it has the words "Come for what you love. Stay for what you discover." above the sign up and log in buttons. There is a search bar, but if I don't know what Tumblr is, what would I search for? The only saving grace is the bright green "What is Tumblr?" link at the bottom, but from just the login page, it's unclear what the site is for. It only makes sense if you read the words, unfortunately. (But even then, the descriptions in the "what is tumblr?" bit are very weird and a little condescending.)

4. Copywriting: "Is it clear, direct, simple, and functional?"
Good: abebooks.com - every bit of copy is all four of those things. Hardly any of it has more than three words, and they are very clear; "Search", "Advanced Search", a nice red "Help" button in the upper right. It also has a section I personally think is invaluable on sites like it: all the links at the bottom to things like the various search options, their about pages, social media, etc. (I am sure there is a term for that section, but I don't know it.)
Bad: portal.questu.ca - I have to just speak to this from personal experience and from dealing with this badly designed site for over four years. The copy itself is not *completely* terrible but there is so much of it absolutely everywhere (it seems like every other word is a link, but it's not always clear where they link to) that it muddles itself. It is functional, but not clear, direct, or simple. In my experience, the simplest tasks were surprisingly difficult to accomplish. At the end of each class at Quest, we had to fill out an end of block evaluation and I had a hard time finding the link every time (I did this a total of about 30 times, about once a month) even though it is on the main page. Most links are 4+ words. The dropdown menus get you to pages from where you have to find at least one other link to get to whatever form you are there to fill out or document you need to find. Getting things done here always took a lot longer than it should because we all had to slog through a deluge of text and unclear copy.

5. Analysis: "Do you know why users do that or are you interpreting their behavior?"
Good: google.com - when looking up things like "convert CAD to USD" brings up its own conversion tool. Google has been implementing more and more of these types of search results (I am sure, again, there's a term but I don't know it), which interpret what I'm trying to do (see the weather, calculate something, convert currency) correctly and it's non-obtrusive. If I don't want to interact with these results, it doesn't force it.
Bad: netflix.com - one particular thing: Netflix sometimes (I think it's after 3 episodes played in a row without touching the mouse?) will pause and ask "Are you still watching?" I personally loathe this. I tend to leave Netflix on when I am doing something like sewing or drawing, where I want some sort of background noise. Netflix interprets me not interacting with it as me not paying attention or falling asleep (or something), so it pauses when I did not want it to pause.
