# Five Main Ingredients for UX/UI:  

## PSYCHOLOGY: "What do they expect when they click 'x'?"  
  -GOOD: Airbnb.com  
    -When I go to airbnb's main website, one of the first things that I see is their trip finder feature - I can type in a place, checkin/checkout dates, and a number of guests. When I click this, I am expecting to see a list of trips populate on the page that are relevant to those specific criteria I typed in, and that is exactly what happens. Furthermore, if there aren't many results that exactly match those criteria, airbnb finds another similar trips to populate so I can consider those, which is also exactly what I would expect.  
  -BAD: Netflix.com  
    -When I am on netflix.com. I expect to navigate through different genres or groups of tv shows, movies, and documentaries, and when I scroll over one specific movie or tv show, I may expect a description to pop up. Instead, when I scroll over one specific movie or tv show, a trailer pops up without consent, playing loudly on my computer or tv, and can even sometimes slow down the functioning speed of the website as a whole.  

## USABILITY: "Could you get the job done with less input from the user?"  
  -GOOD: Duolingo.com  
    -At duolingo.com. I only have to answer four simple questions and then I am suddenly learning a new language. The four questions take less than 30 seconds to answer - duolingo here did a good job of reducing unnecessary input from me (the user) and getting me started on learning a new language.  
  -BAD: Libertymutual.com  
    -I think back to a few months ago when I had to file a claim through my insurance company (Liberty Mutual) because I was rear-ended. The first thing it had me do was type out an entire detailed description of the events that occurred. This took me approximately 10 minutes. After completing this, it then had me go through a list of probably 30 different questions (maybe another 15 minutes) regarding the accident - these were questions with multiple choice responses given to me. It felt as if I had unnecessarily repeated myself, or taken double the time, to cover the same exact information twice. The multiple choice model of questions also did not seem to learn throughout the process of asking me different questions. There were certain questions that were asked early on in the questionnaire that should have ruled out various questions that followed, but rather than learning, I had to answer those questions multiple times.  

## DESIGN: "Does the design lead the user’s eyes to the right places? How do you know?"  
  -GOOD: Amazon.com  
    -At amazon.com's homepage, I am confronted with a large search bar at the top, if I know exactly what I am looking for, so I can type it in right there. Say I don't know what I am looking for though - just below the search bar, there is a selection of UI widgets that are separated by categories - for example, "Halloween costumes", "Women's style", "Deals under $25", and "Items you've viewed before". My eyes naturally move through these widgets to eventually help me find what I am looking for.  
  -BAD: Craigslist.com  
    -At craigstlist.com, the main page is just a bunch of hyperlinked words that will lead me to listings. There are seven maim groups, (e.g. services, for sale) and beneath each of those is what seems like an endless list of sub-categories. There are no images - if it were less small words, my eyes may more naturally move to what I know I need.  

## COPYWRITING: "Does it motivate the user to complete their goal? Is that what we want?"  
  -GOOD: Apple.com  
    -The process of buying anything for the most part of the Apple website takes essentially less than a minute. If I want airpods, I see a beautiful photo of the airpods and and a large, pretty button saying "Buy now!". I then have probably 7-8 more pretty little clicks before they will be officially on their way to my doorstep.  
  -BAD: Americanairlines.com  
    -Recently, I had a flight that was cancelled through American Airlines, and I needed to get it refunded. Over the phone, the woman gave me a long ticket number to enter into their refund website and that should prompt me through a refund process. There were two main things distracting me from completing my goal: the ticket number was probably 20 digits long. Instead of using my 6-digit confirmation code that I already somewhat knew, they gave me very long, new code to enter in. The second reason I was distracted from completing my goal was that when I entered in the ticket number (correctly) it gave me a meaningless error message that stated I was ineligible for a refund. It gave no reason, and did not do anything to mitigate the issue. American Airlines should either have me enter in my last name or the confirmation number to locate the reservation I need a refund for, and if there is an error, that should automatically send over to American Airlines for them to handle it on my behalf - I was left not knowing what to do and had no choice but to get back on the phone with a new customer service representative.  

## ANALYSIS: 
This question I actually struggled with quite a bit - I feel as if for all of the previous ingredients for UX/UI, they can easily be seen, whether they were well- or poorly-executed, through the website as a user. Analysis, on the other hand, I am finding very hard to understand and see from my end as a user on any website - that feels like something that would not be shown through UI or UX, but would rather be contemplated and discussed by UX and UI developers themselves behind the scenes to better their work. I will, however, give an example of what I think analysis would look like. At Apple, UX developers could examine how long a user spends on a webpage on their online store before actually purchasing a product. If they want to decrease the amount of time and motivate the user to buy something quicker, there may be some changers they need to make in their design of the page.
