# Ceaser Cipher
- To create this encoding technique, you'd first want to start by making a function called `ceaserCipher`. This function will take two arguments, a string, then a a number that will represent how many times you want your letters to shift.
- Once this function is created, you will want to declare a variable and assign A-Z in lower case letter in an array to that variable.
- Then you'll want to assign another variable with a value of the string argument. At the end of this value, make sure to use the `toLowerCase` method so that all the letters inputted will be lower case just like the array of letters
- Now you'll want to assign another variable with an empty value. This will be the storage for your encoded message
- Now inside the function, you'll want to do a for loop that will start at the beginning of your string argument, set the loop to stop at the end of the string with the `length` method, and iterate through each character
- After you've set those conditions, you'll want to assign another variable in your for loop to the value of the letter that's getting pulled from your string due to the for loop.
- Now you'll want to start writing in the if statements. The first step is to make sure the program can recognize spaces so it won't crash when it runs into one. You do this by writing out your first if statement, and inside this statement, set the variable that you assigned your string letter to be absolute equal with a space, `" "`. After that, declare that when the loop hits a space, you add it to the empty variable you declared to be the holder of your coded string. This will return the space to its correct area without stopping the program before it goes through each letter. Then you'll want to put the `continue` at the end of this if statement so the program doesn't sop when you hit a space.
- Now, you'll want to assign a few new variables so we can store and manipulate the letters inputted in our function. First, make a new variable that holds the value of the index of the input letter that corresponds with index of that letter within our A-Z array using the `indexOf`. This will allow our function to locate the letters given based on an index.
- After that, you'll want to create a new variable that will manipulate this index value you just got by adding the number of shifts that would be inputted as an argument to our function. This is where the letters will get replaced and the encoding will happen.
- After assigning those variables, we'll want to start performing some more if statements so our function runs properly.
- NOTE- We are still inside of our for loop for all of this!
- The first if statement that we are going to create here is to ensure that our indexes are not going over 25! We'll do this by saying if the value of our variable that was adding our argument to the index number is greater than 25, we will subtract this value by 26. This will ensure that our index is not going past the number of elements in our alphabet array.
- So now that we've set our function to not go over our array, we will use another if statement to ensure that our index doesn't go below the arrayI So now, following this if statement, we will set it so if our variable containing the argument plus the index number is less than 0, we will add 26 to this value to ensure that its 0 - 26, so it will always have a letter to access in our array.
- Now that we've ensured that any letter you put into the string argument will be able to be accessed through the array, we need to put these new letters into a new string!
- We do this by creating an else statement that will set the empty variable we made at the very beginning to add the letter that got passed as the argument, and then that letter will go through our function, grab the index number of that letter in our alphabet array, add the shift number argument to that index, and replace itself with the the letter at the new index, and store itself in our new string variable. And our program will do this for every letter that's inputted in our first argument in the function!
