day_3/README.md, before:

#### ![](https://cdn4.iconfinder.com/data/icons/ionicons/512/icon-arrow-right-b-128.png)Day 3: HTML and CSS

*   #### Daily Warm Up
    
    Work through [typing.io](https://typing.io/) as described in [Daily Warm Up](#daily).
    
*   #### Read Chapter 7 on Forms from [HTML and CSS: Design and Build Websites](http://www.amazon.com/HTML-CSS-Design-Build-Websites/dp/1118008189/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1459879147&sr=8-3&keywords=duckett)
    
    Answer these questions about the reading in your mod 0 capstone gist:
    
    1.  If you're using an input element in a form, what attribute controls the behavior of that input?
    2.  What element is used to create a dropdown list?
    3.  If you're using an input element to send form data to a server, what should the `type` attribute be set to?
    4.  What element is used to group similar form items together?
    
    With the page you created in CodePen, add a form that could be used to submit your top three music artists. It should include:
    
    *   Text boxes for each artist (three artists total).
    *   Labels for each text box.
    *   Dropdowns for the genre of each artist.
    *   Submit button.
*   #### Read Chapters 13 and 15 on Boxes and Layout from [HTML and CSS: Design and Build Websites](http://www.amazon.com/HTML-CSS-Design-Build-Websites/dp/1118008189/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1459879147&sr=8-3&keywords=duckett)
    
    Answer these questions about the reading in your mod 0 capstone gist:
    
    1.  Describe the differences between border, margin, and padding.
    2.  For a CSS rule `padding: 1px 2px 5px 10px`, what sides of the content box does each pixel value correspond to?
    3.  Describe the difference between block-level and inline elements.
    4.  What is the role of fixed positioning, and why is z-index important in the scenario of using fixed positioning?
    5.  What is the difference between a fixed and liquid layout?
    
    Continue working with the page you created in CodePen, add some styling with boxes and adjusting the layout. This should include:
    
    *   Add a border and background color to your headings. Pay attention to the contrast between the text and background colors.
    *   Divide your paragraph text into two vertical columns.

Commit message:

Finish converting instructions for all days to use files/git instead of gist

day_3/README.md, after:

# Day 3: HTML and CSS

## Open your local copy of frontend_module_0_capstone in Atom

In the day_3 directory, create another file called `day3-exercises.md`. This is where you'll put your answers to the following questions.

## Read Chapter 7 on Forms from [HTML and CSS: Design and Build Websites](http://www.amazon.com/HTML-CSS-Design-Build-Websites/dp/1118008189/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1459879147&sr=8-3&keywords=duckett)

    Answer these questions about the reading in your `day3-exercises.md` file:

    1.  If you're using an input element in a form, what attribute controls the behavior of that input?
    2.  What element is used to create a dropdown list?
    3.  If you're using an input element to send form data to a server, what should the `type` attribute be set to?
    4.  What element is used to group similar form items together?

    Within the page you created in CodePen on Day 1, add a form that could be used to submit your top three music artists. It should include:

    *   Text boxes for each artist (three artists total).
    *   Labels for each text box.
    *   Dropdowns for the genre of each artist.
    *   Submit button.

## Read Chapters 13 and 15 on Boxes and Layout from [HTML and CSS: Design and Build Websites](http://www.amazon.com/HTML-CSS-Design-Build-Websites/dp/1118008189/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1459879147&sr=8-3&keywords=duckett)

    Answer these questions about the reading in your `day3-exercises.md` file:

    1.  Describe the differences between border, margin, and padding.
    2.  For a CSS rule `padding: 1px 2px 5px 10px`, what sides of the content box does each pixel value correspond to?
    3.  Describe the difference between block-level and inline elements.
    4.  What is the role of fixed positioning, and why is z-index important in the scenario of using fixed positioning?
    5.  What is the difference between a fixed and liquid layout?

    Continue working with the page you created in CodePen, add some styling with boxes and adjusting the layout. This should include:

    *   Add a border and background color to your headings. Pay attention to the contrast between the text and background colors.
    *   Divide your paragraph text into two vertical columns.

## Save your day 3 file in git and push to GitHub

Using the commit message: `day3-exercises.md`, add, commit, and push your changes to GitHub!
