finalProject/README.md, before:

# Final Project

## Project Specifications

Using what you have learned so far, complete the challenges below. Put any files related to the projects you choose in `finalProject` directory.

_Note:_ These should be challenging, and require to apply most of the content covered in this pre-work. The use of google is absolutely allowed as you may need to brush up on syntax, etc. However, we strongly discourage you from googling for solution pathways to these problems - the point of these is to push you to think like the programmer you are and apply the knowledge you've built so far in slightly different ways.

* [FizzBuzz](./fizzbuzz.md)
* [10 Speckled Frogs](./10_speckled_frogs.md)
* [Ceasar Cipher](./ceasar_cipher.md)

## Next Steps

Depending on if you are in Section A or B, you have anywhere between 1.5-3.5 weeks before you start Mod 1. This is an important time to take care of life things such as doctor appointments, dog park trips, quality time with friends and family, etc. It is also important that you maintain the knowledge and skills you acquired during Mod 0 and this pre-work. You can absolutely do both, but to do so successfully, **you need a plan**. We recommend spending, on average, 1-2 hours a day coding (totally 20-40 hours of time).

What is your plan and how are you going to hold yourself to it? Specifically...
- What are you going to work on? Resources here.
- What days are you going to work?
- What times on those days are you going to work?
- Where you going to be sitting/standing as you do this?
- Where are you documenting this plan? Google Calendar, calendar on your wall, your journal?
- Do any stakeholders in your life know about this plan? (The answer needs to be yes by the time you answer this...)
- What personal items/events are important to you during this time? How are you going to make sure those are not neglected? (Hint, block time on the calendar for them!)

## Deliverables

In the appropriate thread in your pre-work group channel, share the the plan that you developed in the Next Steps section. The point is sharing is to collaborate and inspire - potentially find opportunities to work together on some things, maybe show an organizational strategy you have with others, or just see the thought your cohort mates are putting into this as well, so you don't feel alone! That being said, don't shy away from sharing your _detailed_ plan. This is a great chance to support each other in staying accountable to this plan.

### Final Pre-work Submission

When you have completed *all* the activities described above, follow the steps below to submit your technical prework.

1. Go to *your* prework repository on GitHub
1. Click on `New Pull Request` per the image below:

![New PR](https://i.imgur.com/lGKNxwC.png)

<br>
2. On the Pull Request page, make sure you see something similar to below (but with your username):

![New PR](https://i.imgur.com/CwJH8os.png)

<br>
3. Click on `Create New Pull Request` (circled in the image above).
4. Enter `YOUR NAME` as the title of the pull request, and click `Create pull request` as shown below:

![Create PR](https://i.imgur.com/CQQzfNc.png)

5. Please complete the form to submit your prework available [here](https://forms.gle/wxoVuhHKjrRyvGW2A). Be sure to include links for your Gear Up pre-work gist and your technical pre-work GitHub repository. The link to your technical pre-work GitHub repository will be in the format https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/frontend-mod-1-prework. (using _your_ own GitHub username)

🏔You did it! This is the end of the pre-work. Continue to monitor slack (and emails from GitHub) for feedback from your instructor.

Commit message:

Added Next Step notes to my final project deliverables

finalProject/README.md, after:

# Final Project

## Project Specifications

Using what you have learned so far, complete the challenges below. Put any files related to the projects you choose in `finalProject` directory.

_Note:_ These should be challenging, and require to apply most of the content covered in this pre-work. The use of google is absolutely allowed as you may need to brush up on syntax, etc. However, we strongly discourage you from googling for solution pathways to these problems - the point of these is to push you to think like the programmer you are and apply the knowledge you've built so far in slightly different ways.

* [FizzBuzz](./fizzbuzz.md)
* [10 Speckled Frogs](./10_speckled_frogs.md)
* [Ceasar Cipher](./ceasar_cipher.md)

## Next Steps

Depending on if you are in Section A or B, you have anywhere between 1.5-3.5 weeks before you start Mod 1. This is an important time to take care of life things such as doctor appointments, dog park trips, quality time with friends and family, etc. It is also important that you maintain the knowledge and skills you acquired during Mod 0 and this pre-work. You can absolutely do both, but to do so successfully, **you need a plan**. We recommend spending, on average, 1-2 hours a day coding (totally 20-40 hours of time).

What is your plan and how are you going to hold yourself to it? Specifically...
- What are you going to work on? Resources here.
> I'd like to rework the exercises in the sections of the pre-work. I would like to become more fluent with concepts instead of relying so heavily on my notes, plus I would like a chance to tackle the challenge extensions I wasn't able to commit the time to.

- What days are you going to work?
> Monday - Thursday @ 8:00 PM, Saturday & Sunday @ 8:00 AM
> I am still working in my "former" industry and working around that full time schedule

- What times on those days are you going to work?
> Noted above

- Where you going to be sitting/standing as you do this?
> My office at home

- Where are you documenting this plan? Google Calendar, calendar on your wall, your journal?
> Google calendar and physical agenda/planner

- Do any stakeholders in your life know about this plan? (The answer needs to be yes by the time you answer this...)
> My partner that I live with

- What personal items/events are important to you during this time? How are you going to make sure those are not neglected? (Hint, block time on the calendar for them!)
> Exercise, visiting with my family for the holidays, and walking my dog

## Deliverables

In the appropriate thread in your pre-work group channel, share the the plan that you developed in the Next Steps section. The point is sharing is to collaborate and inspire - potentially find opportunities to work together on some things, maybe show an organizational strategy you have with others, or just see the thought your cohort mates are putting into this as well, so you don't feel alone! That being said, don't shy away from sharing your _detailed_ plan. This is a great chance to support each other in staying accountable to this plan.

### Final Pre-work Submission

When you have completed *all* the activities described above, follow the steps below to submit your technical prework.

1. Go to *your* prework repository on GitHub
1. Click on `New Pull Request` per the image below:

![New PR](https://i.imgur.com/lGKNxwC.png)

<br>
2. On the Pull Request page, make sure you see something similar to below (but with your username):

![New PR](https://i.imgur.com/CwJH8os.png)

<br>
3. Click on `Create New Pull Request` (circled in the image above).
4. Enter `YOUR NAME` as the title of the pull request, and click `Create pull request` as shown below:

![Create PR](https://i.imgur.com/CQQzfNc.png)

5. Please complete the form to submit your prework available [here](https://forms.gle/wxoVuhHKjrRyvGW2A). Be sure to include links for your Gear Up pre-work gist and your technical pre-work GitHub repository. The link to your technical pre-work GitHub repository will be in the format https://github.com/YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/frontend-mod-1-prework. (using _your_ own GitHub username)

🏔You did it! This is the end of the pre-work. Continue to monitor slack (and emails from GitHub) for feedback from your instructor.
