day_6/README.md, before:

#### ![](https://cdn4.iconfinder.com/data/icons/ionicons/512/icon-arrow-right-b-128.png)Day 6: JavaScript, Terminal, Git, and GitHub

*   #### Daily Warm Up
    
    Work through [typing.io](https://typing.io/) as described in [Daily Warm Up](#daily).
    
*   #### Read part of Chapter 3 (Functions & Scope), pages 85-99, from [JavaScript & jQuery: Interactive Front-End Web Development](https://www.amazon.com/JavaScript-JQuery-Interactive-Front-End-Development/dp/1118531647/ref=sr_1_5?ie=UTF8&qid=1541447422&sr=8-5&keywords=duckett)
    
    Answer these questions about the reading in your mod 0 capstone gist:
    
    1.  If we have a function defined as `function sayHello(){console.log("Hello!")}`, what is the difference between entering `sayHello` and `sayHello()` in the console?
    2.  What is the difference between function parameters and arguments?
    3.  What is the keyword `return` used for?
    4.  How are local variables better than global variables? Are there instances you can think of where you might want to use a variable that is globally scoped over local?
    
    Do these exercises in the console.
    
    *   Work through [these problems](https://s3.amazonaws.com/TrainingNerd/JavaScriptForBeginners/exercises/functions.html) in the console about functions.
    *   Practice through some JavaScript basics exercises on [w3resource](http://www.w3resource.com/javascript-exercises/javascript-basic-exercises.php#EDITOR) and check your code against their solutions.
*   #### Work through [Command Line Crash Course](https://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/appendixa.html)
    
    Do all of the exercises: 1-15
    
*   #### Git and GitHub
    
    These are tools that you will use often during your time here at Turing. Let's practice using them!
    
    *   #### Complete this Tutorial
        
        We want you to git really good at Git and Github, please read through the the Git handbook from GitHub [here](https://guides.github.com/introduction/git-handbook/).
        
        Also, this [blog](https://readwrite.com/2013/09/30/understanding-github-a-journey-for-beginners-part-1/) has references to commands and their meaning that might be helpful.

Commit message:

Finish converting instructions for all days to use files/git instead of gist

day_6/README.md, after:

## Day 6: JavaScript

## Open your local copy of frontend_module_0_capstone in Atom

In the day_6 directory, create another file called `day6-exercises.md`. This is where you'll put your answers to the following questions.

## Read part of Chapter 3 (Functions & Scope), pages 85-99, from [JavaScript & jQuery: Interactive Front-End Web Development](https://www.amazon.com/JavaScript-JQuery-Interactive-Front-End-Development/dp/1118531647/ref=sr_1_5?ie=UTF8&qid=1541447422&sr=8-5&keywords=duckett)

    Answer these questions about the reading in your `day6-exercises.md` file:

    1.  If we have a function defined as `function sayHello(){console.log("Hello!")}`, what is the difference between entering `sayHello` and `sayHello()` in the console?
    2.  What is the difference between function parameters and arguments?
    3.  What is the keyword `return` used for?
    4.  How are local variables better than global variables? Are there instances you can think of where you might want to use a variable that is globally scoped over local?

    Do these exercises in the console.

    *   Work through [these problems](https://s3.amazonaws.com/TrainingNerd/JavaScriptForBeginners/exercises/functions.html) in the console about functions.
    *   Practice through some JavaScript basics exercises on [w3resource](http://www.w3resource.com/javascript-exercises/javascript-basic-exercises.php#EDITOR) and check your code against their solutions.

## Save your day 6 file in git and push to GitHub

Using the commit message: `day6-exercises.md`, add, commit, and push your changes to GitHub!
