day_4/README.md, before:

#### ![](https://cdn4.iconfinder.com/data/icons/ionicons/512/icon-arrow-right-b-128.png)Day 4: HTML, CSS, and JavaScript

*   #### Daily Warm Up
    
    Work through [typing.io](https://typing.io/) as described in [Daily Warm Up](#daily).
    
*   #### Read Chapter 5 on Images HTML from [HTML and CSS: Design and Build Websites](http://www.amazon.com/HTML-CSS-Design-Build-Websites/dp/1118008189/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1459879147&sr=8-3&keywords=duckett)
    
    Answer these questions about the reading in your mod 0 capstone gist:
    
    1.  In an image element, why is the `alt` attribute important?
    2.  What determines if an image element is inline or block?
    3.  What are the benefits of `jpg` or `png` image file formats?
*   #### Read Chapter 16 on Images CSS from [HTML and CSS: Design and Build Websites](http://www.amazon.com/HTML-CSS-Design-Build-Websites/dp/1118008189/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1459879147&sr=8-3&keywords=duckett)
    
    Answer these questions about the reading in your mod 0 capstone gist:
    
    1.  What is the benefit of specifying the height and width of images in CSS compared to specifying in the HTML?
    2.  What is an image sprite, and why is it useful?
    
    Continue working with the page you created in CodePen, and add a couple relevant images to your paragraph text.
    
*   #### Read the Introduction and Chapter 1 from [JavaScript & jQuery: Interactive Front-End Web Development](https://www.amazon.com/JavaScript-JQuery-Interactive-Front-End-Development/dp/1118531647/ref=sr_1_5?ie=UTF8&qid=1541447422&sr=8-5&keywords=duckett)
    
    When you're done reading the Introduction chapter, watch [this short video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JzZFccCEgGA) about the Chrome Developer Tools. We'll be using the console to write some JavaScript code on Day 5 and Day 6.

Commit message:

Finish converting instructions for all days to use files/git instead of gist

day_4/README.md, after:

# Day 4: HTML, CSS, and JavaScript

## Open your local copy of frontend_module_0_capstone in Atom

In the day_4 directory, create another file called `day4-exercises.md`. This is where you'll put your answers to the following questions.

## Read Chapter 5 on Images HTML from [HTML and CSS: Design and Build Websites](http://www.amazon.com/HTML-CSS-Design-Build-Websites/dp/1118008189/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1459879147&sr=8-3&keywords=duckett)

    Answer these questions about the reading in your `day4-exercises.md` file:

    1.  In an image element, why is the `alt` attribute important?
    2.  What determines if an image element is inline or block?
    3.  What are the benefits of `jpg` or `png` image file formats?

## Read Chapter 16 on Images CSS from [HTML and CSS: Design and Build Websites](http://www.amazon.com/HTML-CSS-Design-Build-Websites/dp/1118008189/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1459879147&sr=8-3&keywords=duckett)

    Answer these questions about the reading in your `day4-exercises.md` file:

    1.  What is the benefit of specifying the height and width of images in CSS compared to specifying in the HTML?
    2.  What is an image sprite, and why is it useful?

    Continue working with the page you created in CodePen, and add a couple relevant images to your paragraph text.

## Read the Introduction and Chapter 1 from [JavaScript & jQuery: Interactive Front-End Web Development](https://www.amazon.com/JavaScript-JQuery-Interactive-Front-End-Development/dp/1118531647/ref=sr_1_5?ie=UTF8&qid=1541447422&sr=8-5&keywords=duckett)

    When you're done reading the Introduction chapter, watch [this short video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JzZFccCEgGA) about the Chrome Developer Tools. We'll be using the console to write some JavaScript code on Day 5 and Day 6.

## Save your day 4 file in git and push to GitHub

Using the commit message: `day4-exercises.md`, add, commit, and push your changes to GitHub!
